# Getting started

## Requirements

- PHP >= 5.6
- Node.js >= 8
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com) (or npm).

### Dependencies

- **phpDocumentor**: This template is designed for [phpDocumentor 2.x (2.9.1)](https://github.com/phpDocumentor/phpDocumentor#phpdocumentor), but may be compatible with upcoming **phpDocumentor3**.
- **VuePress**: You can use the [version 1.x](https://v1.vuepress.vuejs.org/) by default, but you can also use [version 0.x](https://v0.vuepress.vuejs.org/), depending on your configuration compatibility.

You can globally install them:

```bash
# phpDocumentor2 globally
composer global require phpdocumentor/phpdocumentor:^2.9.0

# VuePress
npm i -D vuepress
```

> Read about [VuePress install](https://vuepress.vuejs.org/guide/getting-started.html).

## Installation

Install `nelson6e65/phpdoc-vuepress` with composer:

```bash
composer require --dev nelson6e65/phpdoc-vuepress
```

> You may need to set the composer option [minimum-stability](https://getcomposer.org/doc/04-schema.md#minimum-stability) to 'dev' in order to be able to install pre-releases.

## Usage

First, you need to [prepare your project to use phpDocumentor and VuePress to generate your API documentation](configuration.md).

After that, using that configuration you only need to generate the markdown pages from your code with **phpDocumentor** and then build your **VuePress** documentation:

```bash
$ phpdoc # This will use the `phpdoc.dist.xml` config file

$ vuepress build docs # Where `docs/` is the directory you configured
```

Done! Your API documentation is live!

::: tip
If you already have a default [VuePress configuration](configuration.md#configuring-vuepress) and you want just quickly run phpDocumentor, you can use:

```bash
phpdoc -d="src/" -t="docs/api/" --template="vendor/nelson6e65/phpdoc-vuepress/data/templates/vuepress"
```

This assumes:

- PHP sources are in: `src/`,
- VuePress documentation is located in `docs/`,
- VuePress will use `/api` route for the API documentation and sidebar is (/will be) configured with the files generated by phpDocumentor.

Please, check the [Configuration page](configuration.md) for examples and guides instead.
:::

## Recommendations

- **Do not track the API route directory with Git**. This files are auto-generated with the `phpdoc` tool, so there is not need to track them. Add to your `.gitignore`:

```bash
# Autogenerated API documentation
docs/api/
```

- **Restrict visibility to protected members**. By default, all members are parsed. So, you need to config `--visibility` to ignore `private` methods:

```bash
phpdoc --visibility="public,protected"
```

or

```xml
<parser>
  <!-- Only Public and Protected members are parsed -->
  <visibility>public,protected</visibility>
</parser>
```
